CALL FOR PAPERS
SMC-IT / SCC 2023

9th International Conference on Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology (SMC-IT)
14th International Conference on Space Computing (SCC)

Date: 18-21 July, 2023
Venue: Caltech, Pasadena, CA, USA

Sponsored by: IEEE Computer Society and the Technical Committee on Software
Engineering

The International Conference on Space Mission Challenges for Information
Technology (SMC-IT) and the Space Computing Conference (SCC) gather
system designers, engineers, computer architects, scientists,
practitioners, and space explorers with the objective of advancing
information technology, and the computational capability and reliability
of space missions. The forums will provide an excellent opportunity for
fostering technical interchange on all hardware and software aspects of
space missions. The joint conferences will focus on current systems
practice and challenges as well as emerging hardware and software
technologies with applicability for future space missions.

Systems in all aspects of the space mission will be explored, including
flight systems, ground systems, science data processing, engineering and
development tools, operations, telecommunications, radiation-tolerant
computing devices, reliable electronics, space-qualifiable packaging
technologies. The entire information systems lifecycle of the mission
development will also be covered, such as conceptual design, engineering
tools development, integration and test, operations, science analysis,
quality control.

TECHNICAL TOPICS
Topics of interest for SMC-IT include, but are not limited to, the
following:

* Data Analytics and Big Data: knowledge extraction and management; data
  mining and analysis; data science life cycle; cloud computing in
  space.

* Advanced Computing for Novel Instruments and Improved Operations:
  novel exploitation techniques and algorithms; sensor networks; quantum
  computing.

* Intelligent and Autonomous Space Systems: intelligent systems;
  computational intelligence; machine learning and artificial
  intelligence; explainable AI; autonomy and autonomous systems; UAV/UAS
  in space; cooperative systems / swarming; neuromorphic computing.

* Robotics for Exotic Mission Destinations: novel space exploration
  concepts enabled by robotic advancements; humans working with robots
  in space.

* Robotic Manufacturing and Assembly of Large Space Structures: 3D
  printing in space; in-space manufacturing; robotics cooperation and
  interaction; telerobotics; construction of structures on other
  planets/moons using in situ materials; CAD tools for in-space
  assembly.

* Space Networking: resilient communications; space-terrestrial
  internetworking and interoperability; standardization.

* Cybersecurity: securing federal networks; protecting critical
  infrastructure; cyber policies; international law; multi-level
  security; defensive cyber operations.

* Fault-Tolerant Space Processing, Memory, and Storage: innovative
  resilient architectures; fault and power management approaches;
  architectures for embedded artificial intelligence, big data, robotic
  vision, intelligent systems applications, and resource-constrained
  environments.

* Software Reliability for Mission-Critical Applications and Safety of
  Life: verification and validation approaches; design for test;
  re-usable software architectures; verification of complex systems;
  DevSecOps.

* Advanced Ground Control: mission planning and scheduling; distributed
  and collaborative mission planning; human-machine interactions; design
  for change; the impact of agile development and continuous integration
  / continuous deployment; the increasing velocity of ground system
  development.

* Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality and HCI: AR/VR applications to
  telerobotics, data processing, mission operations, space science
  analysis; video game technology advancing space capabilities; training
  astronaut; user interfaces, human-computer interaction.

Topics of interest for SCC include, but are not limited to, the
following:

* Components, Radiation, and Packaging: emerging component, module,
  and packaging technologies that will advance space computing
  capabilities; radiation test methods for and results on complex
  components; use of COTS parts in high-reliability applications.

* Computing Architectures: reconfigurable computing systems, high
  performance space computing, fault-tolerant design, system on a chip
  and embedded memories, GPU-based computing, effective use of many-core
  processor platforms; heterogenous computing, in-memory computing,
  performance analysis, benchmarking.

* Flight Data Processing: advances in flight data processing techniques
  including high-speed data processing, real-time data processing, and
  fault tolerance; complex data processing applications that require
  software and FPGA co-processing solutions.

* Avionics Systems: current and future avionics systems and
  architectures; new concepts for implementing reliable space networks
  and interoperability.

* Machine Learning/Neural Computing: machine learning/Neural computing
  techniques; deep learning and machine learning algorithms,
  neuromorphic hardware and other edge devices, neural-inspired sensors,
  and analysis ready datasets.

* Crew Interfaces: novel crew interface devices (e.g., handheld devices,
  voice activated commands, radiation tolerant displays), networks and
  protocols (e.g., network connectivity of crew tools and systems),
  especially in the context of the return to the Moon and Mars missions.

* Extreme Environments Computing: New generations of missions are
  targeting computational operation in extreme environments, including
  operation on and around Titan, Venus, Europa, and more. These present
  challenges for thermal control and radiation effects.

* Distributed Computing: Increasing availability and affordability of
  commercial small-satellite platforms presents new opportunities for
  space mission concepts and computing architectures. Distributed
  systems missions and constellation architectures offer capability
  advancements for science observations, but introduce new challenges
  for space computing, scheduling, and coordination.

* Infusion and adoption of industry standards for space applications.

The organization committee is considering to have a closed-door session. If you
might be interested in submitting work for that session, please contact the
chairs at: smcit-scc_chairs@jpl.nasa.gov.

SUBMISSIONS

The SMC-IT/SCC 2023 Technical Committee is seeking four kinds of
submissions at this time: full papers, presentations, posters, and
mini-workshop proposals.

FULL PAPERS WITH PRESENTATION (BOTH SMC-IT AND SCC)

SMC-IT/SCC 2023 will again use a single-pass, full-paper review process.
Full papers can be up to 10 pages in length and require a verbal
presentation. For full papers submitted to SCC, a separate abstract (between
four paragraphs and one page in length) *must* be submitted first, which will
be used by the PC to identify the appropriate reviewers efficiently.  Authors
of full papers must submit a final version of their paper of up to 10 pages at
the outset, plus references.

All papers accepted for SMC-IT/SCC 2023 will be published in the IEEE
conference proceedings, indexed in the IEEE Xplore database. Note that
IEEE has a "Podium and Publish" policy for conferences, which means that
no manuscript will be published in IEEE Xplore without first being
presented at the conference. Some selected papers may be invited to
appear in a special issue of a reputable journal in the field.

POSTER SUBMISSIONS (BOTH SMC-IT AND SCC)

Proposals for posters can be up to 2 pages in length. Poster authors or
teams will be given multiple opportunities to discuss their work with
interested attendees in poster sessions. Successful poster proposals
will receive further guidance on the exact size and format for their
posters. We particularly encourage college students to participate and
submit original paper and poster contributions.

PRESENTATIONS WITHOUT ACCOMPANYING PAPERS (ONLY SCC)

Authors of presentations which will not have a corresponding paper need
to submit a 1-page abstract, which will allow the conference organizers
to determine if the proposed presentation is germane for the conference,
determine which track/session the proposed presentation belongs and
ensure the author is in contact with the track/session chair for
feedback prior to the final submission. All presentation-only abstract
submissions must be submitted by the initial abstract submission
deadline.

All accepted presentations will be distributed to the conference
attendees, with the consent of the author and their organization, but
will not be published in the IEEE Xplore database.

MINI-WORKSHOP SUBMISSIONS (ONLY SMC-IT)

SMC-IT 2023 will continue the highly successful mini-workshop session
format to explore specific emerging technology themes in greater depth.
Each mini-workshop typically runs as one track for one day, or one or
two half days, and may incorporate invited and/or contributed papers.

To propose a mini-workshop topic, please submit a 1-2 page abstract
including the theme, scope, and goals of your workshop, as well as
any potential speakers already identified. Please also indicate whether
you prefer a full-day, or one or two half-day time-slots.

OTHER SESSIONS (BOTH SMC-IT AND SCC)

The SMC-IT/SCC committee is also planning on holding an "Unclassified,
US Persons Only” session and a “Classified Session” hosted by the
Aerospace Corporation. If you are interested in submitting a presentation
for either of these sessions, please contact the chairs at:
smcit-scc_chairs@jpl.nasa.gov.

FORMAT
Templates can be found on the SMC-IT/SCC 2023 web site:
http://smcit-scc.space

SCHEDULE
* CFP: Call for Abstracts (including papers, posters and presentations):
    Jul 15, 2022
* CFP: Call for Miniworkshops: Jul 15, 2022
* Submission Site Open: Sep 1, 2022
* Abstract Submission Deadline (for SCC): Nov 18, 2022
* Miniworkshop Proposal Submission Deadline: Nov 18, 2022
* Abstract Acceptance Notification (for SCC): Dec 15, 2022
* Miniworkshop Acceptance Notification: Dec 15, 2022
* Deadline Papers (for SMC-IT and SCC): Jan 31, 2023
* Authors Acceptance Notification (full papers): March 15, 2023
* Deadline Workshop Submissions: April 15, 2023
* Deadline Final Versions (papers, posters, presentations): May 15, 2023
* Workshop Authors Acceptance Notification (workshop submissions): May 15, 2023

CONFERENCE CHAIRS:
General Chair (SMC-IT): Alessandro Pinto (NASA JPL)
General Chair (SCC): Jim Butler (NASA JPL)
General Co-chair (SMC-IT) Yogita Shah (NASA JPL)
Finance Chair: James Oyama (NASA JPL)
Finance Co-Chair: Brian Duncan (Johns Hopkins University / APL)
Program Chair (SMC-IT): Ivan Perez (KBR / NASA Ames Research Center)
Program Chair (SCC): Christopher Green (NASA Goddard)
Program Co-chair (SMC-IT): Marie Farrell (Maynooth University)
Program Co-chair (SCC): David Henriquez (NASA JPL)
Advisors to the Chairs:
- Larry Bergman (NASA JPL, Ret.)
- Michael Campbell (The Aerospace Corporation, Ret.)
- Michelle Carter (The Aerospace Corporation)
- Amalaye Oyake (Blue Origin)

ORGANIZING COMMITTEE:
- David Rutishauser (NASA JSC)
- Mariam Malek (NASA JPL)
- María Dolores Rodríguez Moreno (Universidad de Alcala de Henares)
- Keith Schubert (Baylor University)
- Michela Munoz Fernandez (NASA)
- Brian Duncan (Johns Hopkins University / APL)
- Wes Powell (NASA Goddard)

STEERING COMMITTEE:
- Richard Doyle (NASA JPL)
- Rupak Biswas (NASA)
- Jana Roche (The Aerospace Corporation)
- Chris Mattman (NASA JPL)
- Yisong Yue (Caltech)

Last change: Sep 30, 2022 v6
